# Postscript

- The constant desolation in Pyra's background. 
- The background does not lack funny moments, light feeling, amidst trying to save Nia's seriousness. Unlike XC3, which had a more solid background of desolation -- the world's state. 
- 7 years ago, one only remembers the part when Pyra spoke to Rex across the bridge, probably because one was destitute (desolate?) at the time. Now, seeing it anew, one could see also the happy side of their time invested together, the little moments one felt jealous of and wished one was in his place. Mortimer Adler used to say, a Great Book, rereading it at different stages of life, you get different insights. Perhaps Xenoblade 2 is itself great, letting one feel things one don't before. So great one cannot fully translate the feelings one wanted to share. Even the music, one only hear those sad ones before, didn't even realize those happy ones exist, hiding between those plentiful 'boring' background musics. 
- One mentioned about XC3 carving deep on one but one XC1 or XC2; one do had to apologize; one'd fallen into the trap of availability bias, even when one know it exists, but one never questioned oneself. Second, as discussed, because one only see the sad stages of XC2, one'd forgotten about the little happy moments which now carves deeper insights on one that didn't before. 
- The difference between this story and XC3 is that, despite being jailed and Pyra was away, he wasn't as sad as Noah was when Mio was next door. Sure, they had the same anger; but the background were different. He is a child, _he_ is an adult. Well, sort of, though Rex lived longer than him. And the environment isn't depressed here. Rex _is_ an optimist, remember? 
- Like many said, the game is undercooked. Indeed, some part, one felt it could've been expanded. Example, Nia's story was just too short and too vague it doesn't felt like it. Her fears could be elaborated, her story could be told. Perhaps Monolith Soft knew that too, so in Xenoblade 3, they had 'Side Story' for each characters, though they don't necessarily describe their past, but they do expand the stories worthy for each characters. Ultimately, they came out of the mini side story _changed_. For Nia, we felt there had not been enough story. Sure, we do know she's afraid all the time, from the urge to help during Vandham's time, and a few other occasions later, to putting herself "under the test" entering the Spirit Crucible, but what was she afraid of? That could be expanded. The oneliner is "of her identity", but any lesser writers could tell a story by reporting facts. The difficulty is making facts rich enough and turn it into a story. It seems like they were busy with focusing on Pyra/Mythra that the story of others got ignored. We wouldn't have complained if there was _no story_ at all, but when there is a story but it's not being extended sufficiently, we start judging, as readers/watchers, how it could be improved. 

What fears do you carry? Nia carried the fear of her past, afraid of revealing her true identity, afraid of being talked behind her back, afraid of the Praetorium. Pyra and Mythra carried the fear of their powers, afraid that no one would stood by their side, that they were lonely by themselves, that they bear burden for what secrets they held. It rings true, because one, too, had fears. Fears that one's not willing to speak out, not even to one's friends, for fear of being abandoned. Smaller fears included fear of getting out of one's comfort zone, acquired from my mom by living too long with her, _her_ fear. What about you? What are your fears? Your fears that hold you back? 

